---
layout: post
title: ES6 primer for getting started with Angular
---

ECMAScript is the name of the standard that guides Javascript.

ES6 stands for ECMAScript 6 the latest version of the standard finalized in 2015.

This is the latest version of Javascript and has significantly new features aimed at helping develop and maintain large
scale web applications.

While this new version of Javascript doesn't enjoy as much browser support as it's predecessor it's possible to compile
ES6 code into ES6 using tools like [Babel](https://babeljs.io/)

Angular 2 in particular makes a lot of use from these features, so if you are planing to get into Angular 2 development
it's a good idea to learn at least some of the features in ES6.

So lets get started!

#### Variable Declaration

##### let

There's a new keyword that let's you declare variables in Javascript named `let`. If you recall using `var` would cause
the variables declared to be [hoisted](http://www.w3schools.com/js/js_hoisting.asp). Variables declared using the `let`
keyword are not hoisted and behave in the way most of us would expect.

```javascript
function productAvailability(item) {
    if (item.quantity > 0) {
        let availability = item.quantity + "is Available"
        return availability;
    }
    // availability is not accessible here
    // if we used var to declare availability it will be available here due to hosting.

    return "Out of stock!";
}
```

#### const

With ES6 there is now a way to declare actual constants, using the const keyword.

```javascript
const PI = 3.14159;
//PI cannot be reassigned
//PI has to be assigned a value at declaration time.
```

However this constant only makes the variable constant, if you declare a object a constant, you can change it's properties
but you cannot point the variable at another object.

```javascript
const CAR = {make:"Toyota", model:"Prius"};

CAR.model = "AQUA"; //This is legal and valid

CAR = {make:"Nissan", model:"Cefiro"}; //This is invalid and illegal
```

The new `const` keyword behaves in a similar manner to Java's `final` keword.

